{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Another early start. The choice was between sleeping in and more heat. Or rise early and less heat. At 6:00 we began a morning hike to the Sachavacayoc lake nearby. On our way there we see some guans and a couple of brown capuchin monkeys. To see the many colorful bird species like the tanagers you have to book a bird trip. Often they are high up in the trees. In the jungle you have to make do with spontaneous meetings. While hiking, we learn a lot about trees and plants. Apparently one of the trees is also known as the gringotree, because, just like the sunbathing gringos, it sheds it skin/bark. When we cross the river we see the almost never seen electric eel. Another deadly animal. On the lake, we are being rowed around by Joel in an open rowboat. Unfortunately, we do not see any anacondas or other non-bird species- oh right, I almost forgot, the mini bats that stuck to a branch. In terms of birds, it went alright with the hoazins, which were more photogenic now, a snake-headed bird, the amazon kingfisher and a family of beautiful black-and-yellow weaver birds (caciques) that were building a nest. It is unclear to which group of birds the hoatzin belongs to, who he is related to. He is the only family member in that branch for now. They have 3 stomachs, which makes it the only bird to have a digestive tract that ferments vegetation in the stomach. That might be the reason he stinks so bad. He is also known as the stinkbird. We made the right choice, because we had the lake to ourselves. After us, more boats were rowing the lake. We don\'92t see anything new on the way back. Because of the heat on the open boat and the liters of sweat, we were smart to go back to the lodge on time to rest a bit. There were no activities in the afternoon planned. Today we have a transition day planned. From the hot jungle to the cool Lima. We booked a late flight while every other traveler booked an early flight for some reason. That is why there was an option to go back really early and a little less early. But luckily this amazing organization had a solution for that. They will drop us at Puerto Maldano on the Plaza de Armas, where we can have dinner for lunch. After that, they will bring us to the airport, where we have to spend a little too much time. That day will be unforgettable nonetheless, because I got up at 05:30 to walk into the jungle a little to try and spot birds. As soon as I round the first corner, I see 6 white trumpet birds, which live in a limited area and are also nocturnal. Lucky. Unfortunately my camera will not focus this early. At 08:30 we leave for the grand Tambopata on a boat trip that will take 2 hours. Unfortunately it is kind of smoky due to the agricultural fires. Puerto Maldonade\'92s Plaza de Armas looks a little more modern than the plazas we\'92ve visited so far. The only decent picture I can take is of the Billinghurst-bridge. At restaurant Burgos we eat a delicious fish from the Amazon - the arapaima. When we arrive at the airport, the sun has almost completely disappeared behind the smoky sky. The last flight at Latam goes completely according to plan \'96 great airline company. Despite that, we have to pay a little extra when Barbara has to pay 6 dollars to customs to remove a life-threatening power bank from her hold luggage. We arrive back in Lima at 7 o\'92clock where we once again will take an hour to travel 20 km. The people in Puerto Maldano were smarter by using motorbikes. I try to convince the chauffeur to take the motorbike in my best Spanish. I think he agreed with me. Driving in Lima is chaotic \'96 it\'92s a miracle that we didn\'92t get into an accident. A zebra crossing means nothing here (which goes for Peru as a whole), let alone that pedestrians walking straight may go first. The boldest may go first here. You have to take liberties to get anywhere with a car here. Is this what happens when it\'92s mostly men driving? Weird guys, the Peruvians. After checking in, we have some time left to enjoy a delicious mohito/glass of malbec and some bites in the caf\'e9 \'96 Ginebra, which translates to gin in Spanish. Tomorrow we have to get up at 05:00 again to get to the airport. No time for Lima today. We\'92ll be back. Another early start, because the taxi is waiting outside our door at 05:30. Because we\'92ll come back here we can leave some luggage behind so the weight of our suitcases does not exceed 15 kg. I\'92ll admit that a car can be fast on a Saturday morning around this time. It takes us half an hour to reach the airport this time. This time we\'92re traveling with Atsa instead of Latam, which also turns out to be a perfectly fine airline. At 11 o\'92clock we arrive in Chachapoyas in the Andes, just below Ecuador (population of 32.000, \'b1 2500 meters). Despite it being 17 degrees it feels warm. Our hotel where we\'92ll be staying for 5 nights is located on a car-free shopping street near Plaza de Armas. It\'92s a good location. Before exploring the city, I listen to the football score: NAC-NEC 1-0. Yes. The shopping streets are bustling. We can feel the South-American vibe we love so much. The historical center looks beautiful, there are many white houses with brown ornaments. Outside of the center it looks much the same as the rest of Peru. This city does not have many flat areas. Everything is quite steep. It\'92s no wonder that, next to the Plaza de Armas and the Plaza de Independencia, a viewpoint is a highlight of this city. To get to the viewpoint, we first have to climb a set of steep old stairs. The stairs do have some nice decorations. Afterwards we walk through a sort or grub\'a0 to another set of stairs that are decorated with a lot of yuccas. We continue our journey though a muddy street to get to our goal. It has to be said that mirador Luya Urco provides a beautiful overview of the valley and the city. In the evening we eat a simple dinner at Amazonas 362. From today onwards we will have an expedition with Amazon Expeditions every day. We will leave at 9 go see something each day the next few days. The first excursion goes to the old inca village Ku\'e9lap. Along with our guide and 8 others we drive on some bad roads through the breathtaking valley to the ruin of Ku\'e9lap. The climate here lies somewhere between a mountain climate and a tropical climate. That means the vegetation and other fauna is different here. The journey used to take almost 4 hours, it has been shortened to 1.5 hours due to the cable car they built. We transfer to a bus that will take us to the cable car. For some of the Peruvian travelers it is clearly the first time they\'92re in a cable car like this. This is the only cable car in Peru. It spans across the Utcubamba river\'92s deep canyon. It\'92s a beautiful journey. Unfortunately they burn parts of the forest around here as well, so the view of the mountains is a bit obscured by the smoke. Apparently they also burn parts of a forest to summon rain \'96 hmm. This village in ruin lies at a height of 3000 meters and is strategically located on top of a plateau. A ravine surrounds the village, which is why it was difficult to seize. The Incas did succeed in seizing the village however, because as opposed to Machu Pichu, this village was found before the Inca era. It was already a settlement in 500 A.D. the Incas seized the village from the Chachapoyas with which they were often at war. It is always the same story. In the end, the Chachapoyas forged an alliance with the Spanish, after which the Incas left the city. The enormous city wall is still intact, but unfortunately it is being renovated. There are just two small entrances to the village. The village exudes a certain air of serenity and looks less sterile than Machu Pichu. They let nature run its course here, so trees have grown all over the fertile ground. We walk around the village and listen to interesting explanations. Another beautiful historic site down. We had a late lunch in a village near the cable car, Nuevo Tingo, after which we returned to Chachapoyas and arrived a little past 5. At around 7 we went to the black mouth for a cup of coffee and a dessert (carrot cake and chocolate cake). On the Plaza de Independencia we are treated to a performance of 12 men, exclaiming haka-like cries and dancing a synchronous and energetic dance. The second excursion starts at 09:30. This time we are seated in a bigger bus, because apparently this trip is more popular amongst Peruvians enjoying a long weekend. Tomorrow the naval battle of Angamos will be remembered. What battle was that? Wiki can help: in this battle, the Peruvian marines were defeated by the Chilean marine, which led to the coast of Peru being unprotected, which led to the invasion of Peru and Bolivia from the sea. The invasion was the start to the Salpeter war, which ended with Chile gaining quite a bit of land from Peru and Bolivia. Our trip to the first attraction, the cave Quiocta, took a little over an hour. I hope I don\'92t sound jaded if I say that this cave with a few stalactites and stalagmites seems unimpressive compared to the Carlsbad Caverns in New Mexico which we visited last year. Our guide Yelsin Garcia has also visited those. It is difficult to create a beautiful cave when multiple earthquakes ruin a thousand year old stalactite or complete column. The most impressive things about this cave are the circular ceilings, which were created by the swirling water. We lunched on the cozy Plaza de Armas in the village Lamud, where they know how to create beautiful wall paintings. Just like yesterday, we lunched in a filled local restaurant that we normally would not have entered. The food is fine and definitely cheap. It is very noticeable that everything here is cheaper. After driving for 50 more minutes we arrive at the main attraction of the day. The sarcophagi of Caraj\'eda. To get there, we have to walk 1.5 km downward on a steep path. At a nice place with a lot of plants and a view of the valley, we can see the 2.5 meter high sarcophagi clearly. They are up high, in the shadow of a rock. The Chachapoyas made these sarcophagi of which one recently fell because of an earthquake. That leads to the question: how did they get the sarcophagi that high up? With ropes made from agave? There are three more statures around the corner. Incredibly special to see this. The way back up is quite hard, luckily Bar\'92s condition has clearly improved. We get back before dark \'96 around 6. We eat in a peculiar restaurant called Batan del Tayta. Me losing my voice yesterday might have been an omen. For the first time in a while I have to stay home. Especially considering tomorrow\'92s excursion, which includes a hike to a waterfall at a great height, it is important for me to stay home and recover. Barbara will have to do the honors. As mentioned before, it\'92s a holiday today. Every once in a while, a parade with joyful oompah bands walk past my window. It seems weird to celebrate losing a battle and a chunk of land in this way \'96 weird folk. It turned out to be a long day for Barbara. The excursions of the day were the mausoleums of Revash and the mummy museum. Both of these were relatively far from Chachapoyas. Bar was gone from 08:30-19:00. To get to the mausoleums, you have to hike for 40 minutes to get there. In the sandy rock, the mausoleums seem to be a small village, but they actually are graves. They are painted with all kinds of signs and animals, one of which is a llama that apparently represents a zodiac sign. The problem with the culture of the Incas is that nothing is written down. That means that everything depends on interpretation. More research will be needed. After a lunch (trucha once more), the bus drives to Leymebamba, where a little museum houses approximately 200 mummies. Because of the grimaces on the faces of the dead, which is caused by dehydration, it looks gruesome; on the other side, it is intriguing. I have gained enough energy to go to the Black mouth with Bar for a few nice cups of mint tea and a sandwich. We go to sleep at 21:00.\
}